# <h3>Word-Level Language Identification for Resource-Scarce Languages<h3> 
<h4>Definition of Terms</h4>
<p>This repository refers to all the resources which are accessed through this hyperlink or url: https://github.com/Toluwase/Word-Level-Language-Identification-for-Resource-Scarce-/</p>
<h4>Introduction</h4>
<p>This README is a description of the datasets, research results and python program contained on this page; the datasets were used for the word-level language identification research for resource-scarce languages. The word-level language identification strategy proposed in the research was performed through the pattern analysis of the character trigrams of the featured languages. Languages featured in this research are English, Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba. The word-level language identification strategy does not require large corpus which are needed in/for previous word-level language identification and other natural language processing research. Secondly, this strategy potentially works for all languages whose writing systems are alphabet-based.</p> 
<h4>File Manifest</h4>
<p>There are three types of Files</p>
<ol>
  <li>Python Program: The Python program is contained in a python file named trigramAnalyzer.py. Kindly refer to the Operating Instructions for details of the Python program</li>
  <li><p>Corpora: One of the contributions of this research is the corpora of the three Nigerian languages (Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba) which were used for this research and we are making available to the public through this data repository. There are two types of corpora on this repository: three training datasets/corpora and three test datasets/corpora. The training corpora corpora are monolingual, that is Yoruba training corpus contains only texts in Yoruba language, Hausa training corpus contains Hausa texts alone while Igbo training corpus contains texts in Igbo language alone. On the other hand, the three test corpora are bilingual. The English-Hausa test corpus contains texts in English and Hausa languages, the English-Yoruba test corpus contains texts in English and Yoruba languages while the Igbo-Yoruba training corpus contain texts in Igbo and Yoruba languages. </p>
<p>Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba electronic texts are provided on this repository; all the training corpora have been largely cleaned of foreign words. Though the corpora have been cleaned, the sentence structures are still maintained. The Hausa corpus (hausa_training_corpus.txt ) has a text size of 190,833 with vocabulary size of 9,247. The Hausa corpus is not marked, that is the diacritically marked characters have been replaced with the unmarked equivalents. The Hausa corpus was harvested online from news and Christian religion organizations' websites. The Igbo corpus (igbo_training_corpus.txt) is fully diacritically marked, it has a text size of 125,690 with a vocabulary size of 6,737. The Igbo corpus  was also harvested online largely from news and Christian religion organizations' websites. The Yoruba corpus (Yoruba_training_corpus(part).txt) is a part of the larger corpus that was used for this research that could be made available to the public; other part cannot be made available because of copyright issues. The Yoruba corpus has a text size of 116,652 and a vocabulary size of 6,954.</p> </li>
  <li>Research Result: The research results include the research analysis, character trigram-frequency and the word-frequency of English, Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba texts used for the research. These results are presented in Trigams.xls and WORDList&Results.xls files for the trigrams-frequency, and word-frequency/research analysis respectively</li>
</ol>
<h4>Operating instructions</h4>
<p></p>
<h4>Copyright and licensing information</h4>
<p>You do not have the right to reproduce the datasets or the computer program made available on this account for commercial purposes. On the other hand, you have the permission to use the datasets and computer program for research, teaching and educational purposes free of charge.</p>
<p>Please, cite these datasets, computer program and the associated corpora as: <br>
Asubiaro, T., Adegbola, T., Mercer, R. and Ajiferuke, I. (2018). A Word-Level Language Identification Strategy for Resource-Scarce Languages. In 2018 Conference of The Association for Information Science and Technology, Vancouver, BC, Canada - Nov. 10 - 14, 2018.</br></p>

